today's video is sponsored by you as you
guys know these types of videos take a
while to make if you like the content I
put outs and would like to help support
the channel head over to patreon comm
and if you're able throw me a couple
bucks there you'll gain various perks
such as early access to videos while I
wait for YouTube to review them sneak
peeks your name and the end credits an
admission to my official discord server
if you can't trust me don't worry about
it
I truly appreciate all of you for just
being here it means the world to me
anyway I love you now let's get to it
Oh
[Music]
game over
a staple of every videogame old and new
as a vehicle to convey to the player
that their efforts failed that they
didn't finish the task before them
whether it's by running out of stamina
veering off the expected course or by
simply failing to complete a mission in
time it's safe to assume that anyone
that's ever played a videogame has
experienced this message at some point
in their lives
[Music]
video games are a work of Arts relics of
fiction presumably handcrafted by one or
more developers that have carried a
vision within their minds of the story
that they set out to convey the
expectation that comes with us sinners
on the principle that everything or the
vast majority of everything that's
presented to you from the second you
press that power button is merely
entertainments created to drive an
interactive experience from the mind of
the Creator to you but that isn't always
the case as a matter of fact there's a
video game out there that seems to have
implemented something that's at first
glance appears to be fully real sending
the morbidly curious down a years-long
hunt to find out if that's actually the
case a game over screen and a depiction
of death that severe doll too close to
the brink of reality this is the story
of Hong Kong 97
you
let's back it up a few years I'm sure
you've heard of a man by the name of
James Rolfe having skyrocketed to fame
thanks to his iconic character the Angry
Video Game Nerd Rolf has since the
mid-2000s personally brought me many
nights of joy laughter and nostalgia and
his many series even aside from his
portrayal as the nerd from you know it's
[__] to bored James to rental
reviews Rolf has had no shortage of
wildly entertaining series that carry
this unique charm evident from the
outset of his historical tenure online
so far the Angry Video Game Nerd has
over 170 episodes at the time of writing
admittedly something that's incredibly
impressive for a series held primarily
online out of all of these though
there's one from March of 2015 episode
134 that introduced me to a video game
curiously titled Hong Kong 97
upon to take care of business once again
apparently there is a game worse than
big rigs worse than dr. Jekyll and mr.
Hyde worse than crazy bus or desert bus
it is known as Hong Kong 97 and I've
been getting requests for it up the ass
the requests are so far up the ass it's
time to [__] them out
the episode isn't very long as a matter
of fact it's one of the shorter ones
because there really isn't that much to
the game the story is absolute chaos
the gameplay is outer garbage and it's
just an all-around slog to play through
at least according to James anyway one
of the major lowlights of the episode
occurs about halfway n the Nerds doing
his thing ripping this game apart as he
plays it and then he encounters
something the game over screen that
depicts an altar real-looking death one
hit and the game's over why would I
expect anything more oh please I hope
that's not a real dead body no there's
no way they'd have such bad taste that's
got to be an actor or we're looking at
some guy who died on that date and time
in 1992
scrim segments it's back to business for
the remainder of the episode Rolf gets
back into the swing of things and
strings together jokes that were
admittedly pretty clever after doing a
couple minutes of critical thinking
formulating ties between the game's
reliance on the future and the year 1997
he eventually comes to the conclusion
that the game Hong Kong 97 is equivalent
to dog sheds before drawing this episode
to a close
Jen's apart from the realm of crude
humor and light-hearted jokes the
widespread interest in Hong Kong 97 was
merely beginning to take roots the game
was developed in 1995 by a studio simply
known as happy soft this in actuality is
comprised of just one enigmatic man by
the name of yoshihisa Kurosawa who will
give more into later apparently this
entire thing was designed and developed
in the short span of just seven days and
going off the crude nature of the
gameplay
I personally fully believe it's anyway
the story for Hong Kong 97 seems as if
it was one massive ship post that was
way before its time being presented in
an upfront storyboard formats it's
nothing short of comically insane but my
description doesn't do it justice just
look so we start the game up and see the
title screen after clicking starts were
met with a message that seems like it's
marketing
anyway pressing through that's you're
met with this the year 1997 has arrived
a herd of [__] ugly reds are rushing
from the mainland crime rates
skyrocketed Hong Kong is ruined
therefore the Hong Kong government
called Bruce Lee's relative chin for the
massacre of the Reds chin is a killer
machine wipe out all 1.2 billion of the
red communists however in mainland China
there was a secret project in progress a
project to transform the deceased Tong
Xiao ping into an ultimate weapon yeah I
yeah
anyway you then realize that our main
character chin is actually Jackie Chan
and Tong Xiao ping is dong Xiao ping the
game then starts and it's a top-down
shooter that has you battling a literal
endless wave of Communists before you
finally reach the aforementioned killing
machine the head of Tong Xiao ping the
game only lasts about 5 minutes total in
length however repeats itself over and
over each time you defeat the final boss
giving the illusion that it's much
longer than it actually is
oh yeah and the soundtrack is absolute
fire
[Music]
you
with all of the insanity that's been
presented to us thus far in regards to
Hong Kong 97 the game over screen was
the primary catalyst that kept people
actually talking about it this
disturbingly mysterious end game was
something that stood eerily out of place
but now we're probably overthinking this
anyway this couldn't be real could it's
the Reta Bureau of Investigation October
10th of 2018 is that a real corpse in
the GAMEOVER screen of Hong Kong 97
here's this green now refer to so
there's a notorious homebrew video game
called Hong Kong 97 it was released on
the Super Nintendo and is only playable
through emulation as no physical copies
of this game exist it's made by a
company that doesn't actually exist now
I wonder is that a real dead body
this has haunted me ever since I heard
about this game it looks real with the
time codes and everything and the
position of the body it's really creepy
and disturbing to look at the whole game
itself is a mystery to be honest just
the shadiness of the company makes me
think it's real heading back in time
three years further we have another the
videogame Hong Kong 97's game over
screen presents a photo of a dead man it
has a timestamp in the photo and appears
to be a home video no original video
found some say this was a real murder
shown to people through the game the
only known picture of this man is from
the game itself as we can see discussion
about Kurosawa's insane creation was
hots and for good reason the image is
disturbing its crucem and it seems
extremely at a place for something like
this banking on the fact that this
entire game was created in just seven
days it seems unlikely that Kurosawa
would take on the liberty and monetary
obligation to stage a scene like this so
what are we working with let's break it
down before us wave a photo of a man
that appears to have been shot more than
once he seems to have a tattoo on his
right arm
and is either dark brown or black hair
and a beard at the top we can see a
timecode of sorts proceeded but the
letters T C and R on the bottom left
though were able to notice a date and
time 17:31 or 531 p.m. on August 6th of
either that or June 8th of 1992 before
we continue I want to point out
something back during the era of VHS
camcorders the vast majority of them
denoted the date and time at the bottom
corner of the screen it's essentially
common knowledge by this points but this
implies that this is not a still image
this is from video even further
supporting this is the code at the top
TCR according to Wikipedia TCR timecode
or burnt in timecode is a human readable
on-screen version of the timecode
information for a piece of material
superimposed on a video image timecode
is sometimes used in conjunction with
real machine readable timecode but more
often used in copies of original
material onto a non broadcast formats
such as VHS so that the VHS copies can
be traced back to their master tape and
the original time codes easily located
this effectively cements the fact that
this originated from video further
implying that Kurosawa must have ripped
this from somewhere but where all we
have to go off of is this still frame a
time and a date at the bottom-left
expanding on that I previously mentioned
that this was either on August 6th or
June 8th of 1992 however at this point
I'm beginning to lean towards the latter
as I've noticed an inconsistency the
game takes place in Hong Kong
however Kurosawa lives in Japan both
regions use the same date formats which
is the year followed by the month
followed by the day furthermore they
both use a 24-hour clock while the time
notation lines up with what we see in
the frame the date format doesn't if
we're assuming that the month is first
and that narrows us down at just three
countries that currently use it the
United States Canada and Micronesia the
only catch all three of them use a
12-hour timecode and not the 24-hour
clock as its denoted in the GAMEOVER
screen many also realized this and after
digging the major contender of origin
essentially became narrowed down
to Europe it employs a matching date and
time formats in turn sparking the hunt
to not only figure out if this were real
but who exactly this was throughout the
years a names popped up
back during the early days of this
investigation many YouTube commenters
gamefaqs forum posters and redditors
alike arrived at the harmonious
agreement that the game over screen
depicted this man lesyk was a Polish
boxer that died on August 6th of 1992 by
grief-stricken suicide surprisingly
online information about him askance but
for some odd reason people were dead set
on the theory that the person in this
game was him I mean the dates match up
they both look the same and Bleszinski
must have committed suicide by gun
rights rights
[Music]
well no I'm going to assume that the
reason this happened was so people could
have a name to attach this to a sense of
success that they finally put the cap on
this mystery ironically though this
leaves obvious details overlooked
that's severely weakened the time to
blows ends he altogether August 6th of
1992 was the date of his death rites
interesting because we just finished
making the connection that the date is
actually incorrect it was on June 8th
furthermore performing a search on any
sort of life back story on this guy
drums up results that are few and far
between he were able to find a
bare-bones Wikipedia page a few basic
online biographies and a flood of
conspiracy theories linking this man to
Hong Kong 97 I've been digging into him
for a while and I haven't been able to
find any sort of video footage of his
death or even him at all for that matter
so I'm finding it extremely hard to
believe that Kurosawa had dug this
incredibly obscure footage up in the
matter of days that is unless he
mysteriously had a VHS on hand but that
doesn't logically add up considering
their regens
and that fast by ruling up Lozinski
we're back to square one
throughout 2018 a plethora of posts and
videos would spring up further
theorizing on this interestingly the
pleasance key theory was criticized by
many as it did appear to be a
substantial reach at the time it was
widely accepted but crudely
unsatisfactory and things were silenced
up in the air
until July 26th of 2019 that day an
issue Tube channel by the name of RAAM
tro studios would upload a video titled
we found the Hong Kong 97 body warning
graphic content in the video he
essentially discusses how we've been
theorizing on this for years and how
he's finally found the answer thanks to
a Mayo sucks 69 Ram Troy was contacted
with the following hello I've been
searching for your contact info on your
youtube profile and came across your
band camp it's in a Japanese mondo film
called death file it happens at 28 37
interestingly the video still up on
YouTube he showed in the latter half of
the video that searching up death file
brings up a ton of results however out
of all of them
one would be an outlier
[Music]
18 and up archivos de morte Guerra or
death file war opening the video brings
you to a warning screen a graphic
content gateway that was requested by
the uploader a Caio 98 it appears to
have been uploaded to their channel On
January 16th of 2017 and merely rests in
a playlist
curiously titled shocked human re that's
honestly what death file seems to be
according to a film out calm the
description of this 60-minute episode
reads the following welcome to the cruel
world extreme life-and-death situations
that happen every day around the world
captured by amateur journalists and
videographers with great courage and
nerves of steel watch if you dare fast
boarding to 2837 indeed reveals that
this man is in fact the one in the game
over screen of Hong Kong 97 it's from a
segments about the Bosnian war a
grueling conflict that took place
between April of 1992 and December of
1995 resulting in over 100,000 deaths
out of those 100,000 it's safe to assume
that one of those unfortunately was this
man perhaps Kurosawa was a fan of death
file maybe he had it playing while he
coded the game and snapped a quick
picture we honestly don't know and
probably never well according to a
statement given by him in January of
2018 he claims the following every day I
get questions on Facebook from all
around the world from people I've never
heard of asking things like who does the
corpse at the end of the game belong to
people have started to read too much
into the game and they've made up their
own new mystery surrounding it's the
entire setting in context was just stuff
I made up as I went along the questions
are unless so I just ignore them all
thanks to the nerd Hong Kong 97 was
launched into the limelight and shook
the online world leading everyone on a
year's long hunt for answers but we may
never know the who or the how behind
this disturbing image it's satisfying to
at the very least finally uncover its
origin according to Kurosawa the goal
was simply to create a vulgar game and I
thought it would be more fun for the
gameplay to be a failure but honestly I
just wish people would forget about the
game once and for all
but that's the thing Hong Kong 97 will
never be forgotten
this quirky mess of a game has
successfully cemented itself into online
culture and will for the foreseeable
future go down as one of the worst video
games ever made with one of the darkest
GAMEOVER screens in history
thanks so much for watching I'll see you
in the next one I love you all and good
night
[Music]
you